README.rst, before:

Introduction
============

This is a ZopeSkel template package for creating a skeleton Plone add-on
package. The skeleton package creates a Diazo (plone.app.theming) theme package
and associated css and js resources for use with plone.app.theming in
Plone 4.2+.

Use this package when you want to package a Diazo theme as a Plone add on,
particularly if you need to override viewlet or skin templates in the process.

This is a development tool. You should be familiar with Plone and buildout to
use it.

Installation
============

Add these lines into buildout::

  [buildout]
  parts =
     zopeskel

  [zopeskel]
  recipe = zc.recipe.egg
  eggs =
     ZopeSkel
     Paste
     PasteDeploy
     PasteScript
     zopeskel.diazotheme

And run the buildout

Usage
======

Add ons under development are typically created in your buildout's src
directory. Command line for creating a package named diazotheme.mytheme would be::

  ../bin/zopeskel diazotheme diazotheme.mytheme

This will create a Python package with a directory structure like this::

    diazotheme.mytheme/
    |-- diazotheme
    |   +-- mytheme
    |       |-- diazo_resources
    |       |   +-- static
    |       |-- locales
    |       |-- profiles
    |       |   +-- default
    |       +-- template_overrides
    |-- diazotheme.mytheme.egg-info
    +-- docs

The typically customized parts are in the diazotheme.mytheme/diazotheme/mytheme subdirectory.

diazo_resources
---------------

This is where you'll put your Diazo resources including a rules XML file and
one or more template HTML files. You may wish to interactively develop these
theme elements in the theming editor (for Plone 4.3+), then export the
resources and add them here.

A sample theme is included to use as a starting point. Just replace it if you
don't need it. The sample theme's key feature is that it makes use of all of
Plone's CSS and JavaScript as a starting point.

Everything you put in this directory and its subdirectories is publicly
available at ++theme++namespace.package/resourcename.ext.

NOTE: The Diazo theme will be available in Plone even if you have not
installed the package. It will not be applied, though, until enabled in the
Theme configlet of site setup.

diazo_resources/static
----------------------

This is the conventional place to put static resources like CSS, JS and image files.
There's nothing magic about "static". Remove or replace it if it fits your needs.

Everything you put in this directory and its subdirectories is publicly
available at ++theme++namespace.package/static/resourcename.ext.

locales
-------

If your templates include translatable messages, you may provide translation
files in this directory. Ignore it if you don't need translations.

profiles, profiles/default
--------------------------

This is the Generic Setup profile for the add on. The is applied when you use
the "add ons" configlet in site setup to install the package.

This profile has a couple of important features:

* It sets up a BrowserLayer, which insures tha template overrides and registry
settings do not affect other Plone installations unless this theme is
installed.

* It has sample resource registrations for CSS and JavaScript resource
registries.   These allow you to incorporate static resources which are part
of the theme into the Plone resource registries for efficient merging with
other CSS and JS resources. The samples are commented out. If you remove the
comment markers and install/reinstall the theme, the main.css and main.js
files from your diazo_resources/static directory will be incorporated into the
CSS and JS delivered by Plone -- even if the Diazo theme is not active.

The alternative to adding your resources to the registries is to load them
directly in your theme's index.html. This is a better approach if you don't
intend to use Plone's own CSS and JS resources. If you do, registering your
own resources will allow them to be merged for more efficient delivery.

template_overrides
------------------

You may use this directory to override any Plone viewlet, portlet or skin template.

To override a template, copy or create a template in this directory using the
full dotted name of the template you wish to override.

For example, if you wish to override the standard Plone footer, you would find the original at::

    plone.app.layout/plone/app/layout/viewlets/footer.pt

The full, dotted name for this resource is::

    plone.app.layout.viewlets.footer.pt

Template overrides are only applied when the BrowserLayer is installed by
installing your package. So, they won't affect Plone installations where this
package is not installed.

A sample override for the Plone footer is included. Delete it if you don't need it.

For details on template overrides, see the documentation for `z3c.jbot
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/z3c.jbot>`_.

Commit message:

hint that this requires zopeskel 2.x (see #5)

README.rst, after:

Introduction
============

This is a ZopeSkel template package for creating a skeleton Plone add-on
package. The skeleton package creates a Diazo (plone.app.theming) theme package
and associated css and js resources for use with plone.app.theming in
Plone 4.2+.

Use this package when you want to package a Diazo theme as a Plone add on,
particularly if you need to override viewlet or skin templates in the process.

This is a development tool. You should be familiar with Plone and buildout to
use it.

.. ATTENTION:
   This package is compatible with ZopeSkel<3.0 only.
   
Installation
============

Add these lines into buildout::

  [buildout]
  parts =
     zopeskel

  [zopeskel]
  recipe = zc.recipe.egg
  eggs =
     ZopeSkel
     Paste
     PasteDeploy
     PasteScript
     zopeskel.diazotheme

And run the buildout

Usage
======

Add ons under development are typically created in your buildout's src
directory. Command line for creating a package named diazotheme.mytheme would be::

  ../bin/zopeskel diazotheme diazotheme.mytheme

This will create a Python package with a directory structure like this::

    diazotheme.mytheme/
    |-- diazotheme
    |   +-- mytheme
    |       |-- diazo_resources
    |       |   +-- static
    |       |-- locales
    |       |-- profiles
    |       |   +-- default
    |       +-- template_overrides
    |-- diazotheme.mytheme.egg-info
    +-- docs

The typically customized parts are in the diazotheme.mytheme/diazotheme/mytheme subdirectory.

diazo_resources
---------------

This is where you'll put your Diazo resources including a rules XML file and
one or more template HTML files. You may wish to interactively develop these
theme elements in the theming editor (for Plone 4.3+), then export the
resources and add them here.

A sample theme is included to use as a starting point. Just replace it if you
don't need it. The sample theme's key feature is that it makes use of all of
Plone's CSS and JavaScript as a starting point.

Everything you put in this directory and its subdirectories is publicly
available at ++theme++namespace.package/resourcename.ext.

NOTE: The Diazo theme will be available in Plone even if you have not
installed the package. It will not be applied, though, until enabled in the
Theme configlet of site setup.

diazo_resources/static
----------------------

This is the conventional place to put static resources like CSS, JS and image files.
There's nothing magic about "static". Remove or replace it if it fits your needs.

Everything you put in this directory and its subdirectories is publicly
available at ++theme++namespace.package/static/resourcename.ext.

locales
-------

If your templates include translatable messages, you may provide translation
files in this directory. Ignore it if you don't need translations.

profiles, profiles/default
--------------------------

This is the Generic Setup profile for the add on. The is applied when you use
the "add ons" configlet in site setup to install the package.

This profile has a couple of important features:

* It sets up a BrowserLayer, which insures tha template overrides and registry
settings do not affect other Plone installations unless this theme is
installed.

* It has sample resource registrations for CSS and JavaScript resource
registries.   These allow you to incorporate static resources which are part
of the theme into the Plone resource registries for efficient merging with
other CSS and JS resources. The samples are commented out. If you remove the
comment markers and install/reinstall the theme, the main.css and main.js
files from your diazo_resources/static directory will be incorporated into the
CSS and JS delivered by Plone -- even if the Diazo theme is not active.

The alternative to adding your resources to the registries is to load them
directly in your theme's index.html. This is a better approach if you don't
intend to use Plone's own CSS and JS resources. If you do, registering your
own resources will allow them to be merged for more efficient delivery.

template_overrides
------------------

You may use this directory to override any Plone viewlet, portlet or skin template.

To override a template, copy or create a template in this directory using the
full dotted name of the template you wish to override.

For example, if you wish to override the standard Plone footer, you would find the original at::

    plone.app.layout/plone/app/layout/viewlets/footer.pt

The full, dotted name for this resource is::

    plone.app.layout.viewlets.footer.pt

Template overrides are only applied when the BrowserLayer is installed by
installing your package. So, they won't affect Plone installations where this
package is not installed.

A sample override for the Plone footer is included. Delete it if you don't need it.

For details on template overrides, see the documentation for `z3c.jbot
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/z3c.jbot>`_.
